Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be looking at the drag and drop of handlers that are available
within the dorm.
So I set up basic CSSA where I can create essentially a box.
So let's do that and we'll use class
so box.
So I want to set up two divs one and two.
And then I want the ability to actually drag between the two divs.
Let's go back.
And a refresher.
And I also want to put a border around this border
so do one pick solid block border and go back in and refresh it.
So there we go.
So we've got basically our two slots in order to drag and drop.
So we're going to attempt to move an element from one box into the other.
So now we need to create that element that we can start to pull in.
So let's create it within that first box.
So this one will be a div and will give it an ID
and we'll call it get get L.
So to get the element and then
and oh say drag me please.
So let's go back refreshed.
So I've got one that says drive me please.
And then the other one doesn't have anything in it as of yet.
And I'm also going to add some colors to this element.
So get well and we'll give it a background color.
So that we can more easily identify it.
So there we go.
So now let's refresh it.
So that's the element that we want to drag and we want to be able to drag it and drop it off in the
other box.
So there's the listener that's on drag so he got a number of different ones here so we've got on Drag
start over leave and turn and on drag on drop.
So these are the ones that we're going to be using on Drag start.
So we need to have a d start.
So this is the function that we want to fire off whenever the drag starts and who should put it call
it do start so let's set up that function within our Javascript.
So basically this is firing off whenever the drag is starting.
And let's update that message
drag started.
So that's all that's going to happen right now.
So it's refreshed and we need to actually add an attribute here as well.
So this what we want and need to add the attribute draggle
so drag up will has to equal.
True.
So that basically allows that element to become draggle.
So let's refresher so we can see now when we refresh the page when we select it and we start dragging
it we've got drag started.
So that's the message that we want.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to have somewhere where we can actually drop it.
So let's add those in.
So within the box there we're going to add another event listener so this one is called on drag where
it should be actually on drop.
So on a draw we need to fire off so d drop.
This is the event that we want to fire off.
So on draw we want to fire off Diedre and I want to add that to the other box as well because they need
to be the same.
And another thing too that we need to also we need to so they have on drag over.
So this is something that can fire off whenever the element is on top of another one.
And so basically we want to disable this.
So we want to no drop.
So basically we want to have a no drop function.
And this one all this is going to do is this is basically going to prevent the ability to drag over.
So let's update and add in our functions within the javascript's So there was an drop.
So the default to it is drag over.
So we want to prevent the default.
And there is a built in method with javascript as well to do that.
And this one actually becomes really useful because this allows you to prevent defaults of typical actions.
So if you if you do this on a link or something else you can basically prevent the default action of
that element.
We know that a lot of elements like hyperlinks they have default actions.
And whenever you're dragging drag over there's default elements with default actions within the elements.
So we can disable that by doing event to prevent default.
So basically now we can't drag over it which is what we want because we want the ability to be able
to drop that and so function.
And last one is the drop.
So this is the function that fires off and will say within here that Draut that
so to say drop it for now.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And now it can drag it and drag start it and we can see it drop it.
So everything is working but we're not transferring the element.
So that's because there's a few things that we need to still take care of.
So one of them is we need to prevent the default.
So we want to prevent the default action of dropping and the other thing that we want to do is we want
to
check to see if the target is actually where we want to drop it so it has to be one of the boxes and
we need to check.
So this is a condition where we check to see if the target server the event target from before.
So we're still using that because it contains a whole bunch of information and we can check to see class
names in it as well.
So we can check to see if the class name is equal to box which it has to be in order for us to drop
it that we know that we're okay to drop.
And there's a few other things that we still need to add in.
So we need to have a default global variable that can hold
hold taken hold the item basically.
So what we want to do is when we start the drag We want to add into the hold item the event target.
So basically what we've picked up we want to drop in to the hold item and that way we know that we've
got the hold item and we can remove we can remove it from there.
And then we can drop it into the new place.
So going over to here so we know that it is a box or all good to go.
And we're going to use another one another built in method within the dorm.
So basically this adds a note at the end of the child child's list of the parent node so we can basically
append a child.
And what we want to do is we want to append that item that we're dragging in on top and that one is
going to be under Holder item.
So we want to pen the child with the holder item.
So let's see how this works.
And there's still a few other things that we still need to finish off.
But we can see that we're able to kind of drag and drop it and everything seems to be working properly.
Let me add in some identifiers here for these divs because the boxes we don't have anything to identify
them as of yet.
So just do one and two.
And I'm also going to make them a little bit bigger as well.
And I'm also going to give them some padding
and margin
so margins zero and 50 picks.
So let's refresh it now so now we can see that we can drag and drop it into different elements and everything
is working properly.
So that's how you can do a drag and drop of elements and just go to make sure that you do cancels out
the dance.
So in this one we learned that we can prevent the default events from firing off by doing prevent default
on the event object.
And we also saw how we can go through and we can append into our elements so it can append content into
them as well.
And now I want you to pause the video and add in a few more boxes so add in two more boxes and I'll
show you how to do that coming up.
So one and two add in a few extra boxes go back and refresh it.
So now we've got a number of boxes and everything should still work the same way where we can drag and
drop it into any one of those boxes is they all share those same properties and they all have the same
event listeners drop and the drag over has been disabled.
So they're able to drag and drop elements into any one that has the class of box.